# Portfolio--Data-Analyst
# **Prad Lamichhane - Data-Analyst-Portfolio**
## **About**
👋 Hi, I am Prad Lamichhane and I am a **Microsoft Certified Power BI Data Analyst**. I have a diverse background in ranging from Banking to Dairy, Health Care, and Transportation in both Australia and abroad. I have recently completed Data Analytics Bootcamp from Generation Australia. I have developed a strong foundation in business and economics and a passion for using data to uncover meaningful insights. I am excited to bring my technical and analytical skills to the field of data science as an entry-level data specialist.

During my bootcamp, I honed my ability to work with complex data and developed a keen eye for identifying patterns and trends. I also gained experience using various tools like Python, SQL, Shell, Git and PowerBI for the purpose of Data Analysis, which I believe will be valuable assets in my role as a data analyst.

In my free time, I enjoy exploring new data analysis tools and techniques, and I am always looking for opportunities to expand my knowledge and skills. Whether working on a team or independently, I am driven by the thrill of discovering new insights and the satisfaction of using data to solve complex problems.

My CV in [pdf](https://github.com/Prad111/Portfolio--Data-Analyst/blob/main/Prad_Resume_github.pdf).

This is a repository to showcase skills, share projects and track my progress in Data Analytics related topics.


Table of Contents

[About](https://github.com/Prad111/Portfolio--Data-Analyst/blob/main/README.md#about)

[Portfolio Projects](https://github.com/Prad111/Portfolio--Data-Analyst/blob/main/README.md#portfolio-projects)

  

  ## **SQL and Python**

[Adventure Works Analysis](https://github.com/Prad111/Portfolio--Data-Analyst/blob/main/README.md#Adventure-Works-Analysis)

  ## **Power BI**

[Sales Analysis Dashboard](https://github.com/Prad111/Portfolio--Data-Analyst/blob/main/README.md#Sales-Analysis-Dashboard)

Certificates

Contact


## **Portfolio Projects**
In this section I will list data analytics projects briefly describing the technology stack used to solve cases.

### **Adventure Works Analysis**
In this project I use SQL, Python and Data Analytics skills to analyze the [Adventure Works Dataset](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/samples/adventureworks-install-configure?view=sql-server-ver15&tabs=ssms) and offer valuable insights. 

  ##### **Goal**
  The goal of the project is to answer the following questions that could help the management of AdventureWorks answer some important questions about their business:
      
  ##### **Description**
  The project focussed on answering the following questions:
  1. What are the regional sales in the best performing country?
  2. What is the relationship between annual leave taken and bonus?
  3. What is the relationship between Country and Revenue?
  4. What is the relationship between sick leave and Job Title (PersonType)?
  5. What is the relationship between store trading duration and revenue?
  6. What is the relationship between the size of the stores, number of employees and revenue?
      
  #### **Skills:** 
  Data cleaning, data analysis, correlation matrices, data visualization
      
  ### **Technology:**
  SQL, Python, Pandas, Numpy, Seaborn, Matplotlib, SciPy
      
  #### **Results:**
  Using SQL and Python, it was possible to provide the answers to the questions mentioned in the **Description** section above and explore the relationship between the various business variables that impact AdventureWorks business.
The entire result of the analysis has been shown in [this file](https://github.com/Prad111/Portfolio--Data-Analyst/blob/main/AdventureWorks.ipynb) along with the necessary explanation.
      
      
### **Sales Analysis Dashboard**
In this project I use Power BI Desktop and Power BI Service to analyze the sales data of a fictious company derived from Kaggle. The analysis was presented in the form of a Dashboard published in Power BI Service.  


##### **Goal**
  The goal of the project is to analyze the sales and profit of the comany so that the management of the company can adjust their strategy to get the best results.
      
  ##### **Description**
  The project focussed on addressing the following issues:
  1. Calculate Total Sales, Total Profit and Profit Margin
  2. Analyze the number of orders placed
  3. Compare the sales of each product between selected period and the previous year
  4. Find out the cities with the largest sales
  5. Compare the profit generated by each channel for the selected period and the corresponding period of the previous year
  6. Analyze the sales made to the customers and compare it to the previous year
  7. Enable the users to interact with the data by providing slicers
  #### **Skills:** 
 Data Gathering, Data Extraction, Transformation and Load using Power Query, Creating Date Table, Data Modeling, DAX
      
  ### **Technology:**
  Power BI Desktop, Power BI Service, Excel
      
#### **Results:**
It was possile to perform analysis as mentioned in the [Description](https://github.com/Prad111/Portfolio--Data-Analyst/blob/main/README.md#Sales-Analysis-Dashboard) section. The entire result of the analysis has been shown in [this file](https://github.com/Prad111/Portfolio--Data-Analyst/blob/main/Sales_Analysis-for-Portfolio.pbix) The analysis shows that for the year 2019: 
- Total Sales decreased by 9.23%
- Total Sales declined for all products but two
- Export Channel has the highest profit margin
- Though there have been increase in sales to the top buyers, the sales has fallen for the majority of other customers which has led to the fall in Total Sales and Profit.
          
